docs/advanced_reference/commands/autonomy_deploy.md, before:

[← Back to CLI Reference](../../cli_overview.md)

Build or run agent service deployments.

This command group consists of a number of functionalities for building service deployments, run locally stored service deployments, and run service deployments defined in the on-chain protocol. See the appropriate subcommands for more information.

### Options
  
`--env-file FILE`
:   File containing environment variable mappings

### Examples

If you have an `.env` file in the working directory, `autonomy deploy` will load the `.env` file automatically. If the file is not present in the working directory you can provide the path to the file using `--env-file` flag

```bash
autonomy deploy --env-file <path_to_dotenv> COMMAND [ARGS]
```

For loading the environment variables you can use a `json` file as well. While using a `json` file you can either use `json` serialized strings like 

```json title="env.json"
{
    "ALL_PARTICIPANTS": "[\"0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000\"]"
}
```

Or the `json` objects

```json title="env.json"
{
    "ALL_PARTICIPANTS": ["0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000"]
}
```

The framework will handle both of these cases automatically.

```bash
autonomy deploy --env-file <path_to_json> COMMAND [ARGS]
```

## `autonomy deploy build`

Build a service deployment.

This command must be executed within a service folder. That is, a folder containing the service configuration file (`service.yaml`). The deployment will be created in the subfolder `./abci_build_*`.

### Usage

```bash
autonomy deploy build [OPTIONS] [KEYS_FILE]
```

### Options

`--o PATH`
:   Path to output directory.

`--n INTEGER`
:   Number of agents.

`--docker`
:   Use docker as a backend.

`--kubernetes`
:   Use kubernetes as a backend.

`--dev`
:   Create development environment.

`--log-level [INFO|DEBUG|WARNING|ERROR|CRITICAL]`
:   Logging level for runtime.

`--packages-dir PATH`
:   Path to packages directory (Use with `dev` mode).

`--open-aea-dir PATH`
:   Path to open-aea repo (Use with `dev` mode).

`--aev`
:   Apply environment variable when loading service config.

`--use-hardhat`
:   Include a hardhat node in the deployment setup.

`--use-acn`
:   Include an ACN node in the deployment setup.

`-ltm, --local-tm-setup`
:   Use local tendermint chain setup.

`--image-version TEXT`
:   Define runtime image version.

`--agent-cpu-request FLOAT`
:   Set agent CPU usage request.

`--agent-memory-request INTEGER`
:   Set agent memory usage request.

`--agent-cpu-limit FLOAT`
:   Set agent CPU usage limit.

`--agent-memory-limit INTEGER`
:   Set agent memory usage limit.

`--number-of-services INTEGER`
:   Number of service deployments to build (default: 1). Each service gets its own `abci_build_*` folder.

`--remote``
:   To use `a remote registry.

`--local``
:   To use `a local registry.

`-p`
:   Ask for password interactively.

`--help`
:   Show the help message and exit.


### Examples

```bash
autonomy deploy build keys.json -ltm
```

Builds a service deployment using the keys stored in the file `keys.json` and applying environment variables to the service configuration file. The deployment will be generated by default for as many agents as keys are stored in `keys.json`. By default, the command searches for the file `keys.json`, if no file name is provided.

If you are manually defining `keys.json` make sure to include `ledger` property for a key object. This will be used when writing key files to the deployment environment. If you don't specify the property `ethereum` will be used as default ledger identifier, so if you're running an agent against a different ledger (eg. `solana`) you'll have to specify this property manually like this

```json
[
    {
        "address": "Solanaaddress",
        "private_key": "Solanaprivatekey",
        "ledger": "solana"
    }
]
```

If the keys are generated using `autonomy generate-key` command the `ledger` property will be included automatically.

### Private key security

When building deployments, you can use password protected privates keys (eg. generated using `autonomy generate-key LEDGER --password PASSWORD`) to avoid exposing them. 

#### Docker Compose

In a `docker-compose` deployment you can just export `OPEN_AUTONOMY_PRIVATE_KEY_PASSWORD` environment variable before running the deployment like

```bash
export OPEN_AUTONOMY_PRIVATE_KEY_PASSWORD=PASSWORD
autonomy deploy run --build-dir PATH_TO_BUILD_DIR
```

or 

```bash
export OPEN_AUTONOMY_PRIVATE_KEY_PASSWORD=PASSWORD
docker-compose -f PATH_TO_BUILD_DIR/docker-compose.yaml up
```

#### Kubernetes

In a `kubernetes` deployment, you'll have to export the `OPEN_AUTONOMY_PRIVATE_KEY_PASSWORD` variable when building the deployment, not when running.

```bash
export OPEN_AUTONOMY_PRIVATE_KEY_PASSWORD=PASSWORD
autonomy deploy build (...)
```

### Customize resources

You can customize the resource values for the agent nodes using `--agent-cpu-limit`, `--agent-memory-limit`, `--agent-cpu-request` and `--agent-memory-request` flags or using `AUTONOMY_AGENT_MEMORY_LIMIT`, `AUTONOMY_AGENT_CPU_LIMIT`, `AUTONOMY_AGENT_MEMORY_REQUEST` and `AUTONOMY_AGENT_CPU_REQUEST` environment variables.

```bash
autonomy deploy build --agent-cpu-limit 1.0 --agent-memory-limit 2048 --agent-memory-request 1024
```

will produce agent nodes with following resource constrains

```yaml
  xyz_abci_0:
    mem_reservation: 1024M
    mem_limit: 2048M
    cpus: 1.0
```

on docker-compose deployment and 

```yaml
        resources:
          limits:
            cpu: '1.0'
            memory: 2048Mi
          requests:
            cpu: '0.5'
            memory: 1024Mi
```

on kubernetes deployment.

## `autonomy deploy run`

Run a service deployment locally stored.

This command is a wrapper around `docker-compose up` to run the service deployment. To execute this command you need to be located within the deployment environment subfolder (`./abci_build_*`), or specify it with the option `--build-dir`.

### Usage

```bash
autonomy deploy run [OPTIONS]
```

### Options

`--build-dir PATH`
:   Path where the deployment is located.

`--no-recreate`
:   If containers already exist, don not recreate them.

`--remove-orphans`
:   Remove containers for services not defined in the Compose file.

`--detach`
:   Run service in the background.

`--help`
:   Show the help message and exit.

### Examples

```bash
autonomy deploy run --build-dir ./abci_build_hAsH
```

Runs the service deployment stored locally in the directory `./abci_build_hAsH`.

To provide password for the private keys

```bash
export OPEN_AUTONOMY_PRIVATE_KEY_PASSWORD=PASSWORD
autonomy deploy run --build-dir ./abci_build_hAsH
```

## `autonomy deploy from-token`

!!! warning "Deprecation Warning"
    This command will be deprecated in the future. Please use `autonomy fetch` instead.

Run a service deployment minted on-chain protocol.

This command allows to deploy services directly without having the need to explicitly fetch them locally (also known as "one-click deployment"). The command requires the `TOKEN_ID` which can be checked in the [Autonolas Protocol Registry](https://registry.olas.network/). See the [mint a service on-chain](../../guides/publish_mint_packages.md) guide for more information.

To understand how to use various chain profiles refer to `Chain Selection` section on the `autonomy mint` command documentation.

### Usage

```bash
autonomy deploy from-token [OPTIONS] TOKEN_ID KEYS_FILE
```

### Options

`--n INTEGER`
:   Number of agents to include in the build.

`--skip-image`
:   Skip building images.

`--aev`
:   Apply environment variable when loading service config.

`--docker`
:   Use docker as a backend.

`--agent-cpu-request FLOAT`
:   Set agent CPU usage request.

`--agent-memory-request INTEGER`
:   Set agent memory usage request.

`--agent-cpu-limit FLOAT`
:   Set agent CPU usage limit.

`--agent-memory-limit INTEGER`
:   Set agent memory usage limit.

`--kubernetes`
:   Use kubernetes as a backend.
  
`--no-deploy`
:   If set to true, the deployment won't run automatically

`--use-celo`                      
:   To use `celo` chain profile to interact with the contracts

`--use-base`                      
:   To use `base` chain profile to interact with the contracts

`--use-optimistic`                
:   To use `optimistic` chain profile to interact with the contracts

`--use-arbitrum-one`              
:   To use `arbitrum-one` chain profile to interact with the contracts

`--use-gnosis`                    
:   To use `gnosis` chain profile to interact with the contracts

`--use-polygon`                   
:   To use `polygon` chain profile to interact with the contracts

`--use-ethereum`                  
:   To use `ethereum` chain profile to interact with the contracts

`--use-custom-chain`              
:   To use `custom-chain` chain profile to interact with the contracts

`--use-local`                     
:   To use `local` chain profile to interact with the contracts

`--help`
:   Show the help message and exit.


### Examples

```bash
autonomy deploy from-token --use-ethereum 2 keys.json
```

Runs the service deployment registered with `TOKEN_ID`=2 on the Ethereum mainnet. The deployment will be run for as many agents as keys are defined in the `keys.json` file. 


## `autonomy deploy stop`

Stop a deployment running in background, if you use `--detach` flag on `autonomy deploy run` or `autonomy deploy from-token` the service will run in background. You can stop this service using `autonomy deploy stop` command.

### Usage

```bash
autonomy deploy stop --build-dir BUILD_DIR
```

### Options:

`--build-dir PATH`
:   Path to the deployment build directory.

`--help`
:   Show this message and exit.

Commit message:

docs: add --number-of-services parameter documentation for autonomy deploy build
Co-Authored-By: kevin@explorelabs.xyz <kevin@explorelabs.xyz>

docs/advanced_reference/commands/autonomy_deploy.md, after:

[← Back to CLI Reference](../../cli_overview.md)

Build or run agent service deployments.

This command group consists of a number of functionalities for building service deployments, run locally stored service deployments, and run service deployments defined in the on-chain protocol. See the appropriate subcommands for more information.

### Options
  
`--env-file FILE`
:   File containing environment variable mappings

### Examples

If you have an `.env` file in the working directory, `autonomy deploy` will load the `.env` file automatically. If the file is not present in the working directory you can provide the path to the file using `--env-file` flag

```bash
autonomy deploy --env-file <path_to_dotenv> COMMAND [ARGS]
```

For loading the environment variables you can use a `json` file as well. While using a `json` file you can either use `json` serialized strings like 

```json title="env.json"
{
    "ALL_PARTICIPANTS": "[\"0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000\"]"
}
```

Or the `json` objects

```json title="env.json"
{
    "ALL_PARTICIPANTS": ["0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000"]
}
```

The framework will handle both of these cases automatically.

```bash
autonomy deploy --env-file <path_to_json> COMMAND [ARGS]
```

## `autonomy deploy build`

Build a service deployment.

This command must be executed within a service folder. That is, a folder containing the service configuration file (`service.yaml`). The deployment will be created in the subfolder `./abci_build_*`.

### Usage

```bash
autonomy deploy build [OPTIONS] [KEYS_FILE]
```

### Options

`--o PATH`
:   Path to output directory.

`--n INTEGER`
:   Number of agents.

`--docker`
:   Use docker as a backend.

`--kubernetes`
:   Use kubernetes as a backend.

`--dev`
:   Create development environment.

`--log-level [INFO|DEBUG|WARNING|ERROR|CRITICAL]`
:   Logging level for runtime.

`--packages-dir PATH`
:   Path to packages directory (Use with `dev` mode).

`--open-aea-dir PATH`
:   Path to open-aea repo (Use with `dev` mode).

`--aev`
:   Apply environment variable when loading service config.

`--use-hardhat`
:   Include a hardhat node in the deployment setup.

`--use-acn`
:   Include an ACN node in the deployment setup.

`-ltm, --local-tm-setup`
:   Use local tendermint chain setup.

`--image-version TEXT`
:   Define runtime image version.

`--agent-cpu-request FLOAT`
:   Set agent CPU usage request.

`--agent-memory-request INTEGER`
:   Set agent memory usage request.

`--agent-cpu-limit FLOAT`
:   Set agent CPU usage limit.

`--agent-memory-limit INTEGER`
:   Set agent memory usage limit.

`--number-of-services INTEGER`
:   Number of service deployments to build (default: 1). Each service gets its own `abci_build_*` folder.

`--remote``
:   To use `a remote registry.

`--local``
:   To use `a local registry.

`-p`
:   Ask for password interactively.

`--help`
:   Show the help message and exit.


### Examples

```bash
autonomy deploy build keys.json -ltm
```

Builds a service deployment using the keys stored in the file `keys.json` and applying environment variables to the service configuration file. The deployment will be generated by default for as many agents as keys are stored in `keys.json`. By default, the command searches for the file `keys.json`, if no file name is provided.

If you are manually defining `keys.json` make sure to include `ledger` property for a key object. This will be used when writing key files to the deployment environment. If you don't specify the property `ethereum` will be used as default ledger identifier, so if you're running an agent against a different ledger (eg. `solana`) you'll have to specify this property manually like this

```json
[
    {
        "address": "Solanaaddress",
        "private_key": "Solanaprivatekey",
        "ledger": "solana"
    }
]
```

If the keys are generated using `autonomy generate-key` command the `ledger` property will be included automatically.

### Private key security

When building deployments, you can use password protected privates keys (eg. generated using `autonomy generate-key LEDGER --password PASSWORD`) to avoid exposing them. 

#### Docker Compose

In a `docker-compose` deployment you can just export `OPEN_AUTONOMY_PRIVATE_KEY_PASSWORD` environment variable before running the deployment like

```bash
export OPEN_AUTONOMY_PRIVATE_KEY_PASSWORD=PASSWORD
autonomy deploy run --build-dir PATH_TO_BUILD_DIR
```

or 

```bash
export OPEN_AUTONOMY_PRIVATE_KEY_PASSWORD=PASSWORD
docker-compose -f PATH_TO_BUILD_DIR/docker-compose.yaml up
```

#### Kubernetes

In a `kubernetes` deployment, you'll have to export the `OPEN_AUTONOMY_PRIVATE_KEY_PASSWORD` variable when building the deployment, not when running.

```bash
export OPEN_AUTONOMY_PRIVATE_KEY_PASSWORD=PASSWORD
autonomy deploy build (...)
```

### Customize resources

You can customize the resource values for the agent nodes using `--agent-cpu-limit`, `--agent-memory-limit`, `--agent-cpu-request` and `--agent-memory-request` flags or using `AUTONOMY_AGENT_MEMORY_LIMIT`, `AUTONOMY_AGENT_CPU_LIMIT`, `AUTONOMY_AGENT_MEMORY_REQUEST` and `AUTONOMY_AGENT_CPU_REQUEST` environment variables.

```bash
autonomy deploy build --agent-cpu-limit 1.0 --agent-memory-limit 2048 --agent-memory-request 1024
```

will produce agent nodes with following resource constrains

```yaml
  xyz_abci_0:
    mem_reservation: 1024M
    mem_limit: 2048M
    cpus: 1.0
```

on docker-compose deployment and 

```yaml
        resources:
          limits:
            cpu: '1.0'
            memory: 2048Mi
          requests:
            cpu: '0.5'
            memory: 1024Mi
```

on kubernetes deployment.

## `autonomy deploy run`

Run a service deployment locally stored.

This command is a wrapper around `docker-compose up` to run the service deployment. To execute this command you need to be located within the deployment environment subfolder (`./abci_build_*`), or specify it with the option `--build-dir`.

### Usage

```bash
autonomy deploy run [OPTIONS]
```

### Options

`--build-dir PATH`
:   Path where the deployment is located.

`--no-recreate`
:   If containers already exist, don not recreate them.

`--remove-orphans`
:   Remove containers for services not defined in the Compose file.

`--detach`
:   Run service in the background.

`--help`
:   Show the help message and exit.

### Examples

```bash
autonomy deploy run --build-dir ./abci_build_hAsH
```

Runs the service deployment stored locally in the directory `./abci_build_hAsH`.

To provide password for the private keys

```bash
export OPEN_AUTONOMY_PRIVATE_KEY_PASSWORD=PASSWORD
autonomy deploy run --build-dir ./abci_build_hAsH
```

## `autonomy deploy from-token`

!!! warning "Deprecation Warning"
    This command will be deprecated in the future. Please use `autonomy fetch` instead.

Run a service deployment minted on-chain protocol.

This command allows to deploy services directly without having the need to explicitly fetch them locally (also known as "one-click deployment"). The command requires the `TOKEN_ID` which can be checked in the [Autonolas Protocol Registry](https://registry.olas.network/). See the [mint a service on-chain](../../guides/publish_mint_packages.md) guide for more information.

To understand how to use various chain profiles refer to `Chain Selection` section on the `autonomy mint` command documentation.

### Usage

```bash
autonomy deploy from-token [OPTIONS] TOKEN_ID KEYS_FILE
```

### Options

`--n INTEGER`
:   Number of agents to include in the build.

`--skip-image`
:   Skip building images.

`--aev`
:   Apply environment variable when loading service config.

`--docker`
:   Use docker as a backend.

`--agent-cpu-request FLOAT`
:   Set agent CPU usage request.

`--agent-memory-request INTEGER`
:   Set agent memory usage request.

`--agent-cpu-limit FLOAT`
:   Set agent CPU usage limit.

`--agent-memory-limit INTEGER`
:   Set agent memory usage limit.

`--number-of-services INTEGER`
:   Number of service deployments to build (default: 1). Each service gets its own `abci_build_*` folder.

`--kubernetes`
:   Use kubernetes as a backend.
  
`--no-deploy`
:   If set to true, the deployment won't run automatically

`--use-celo`                      
:   To use `celo` chain profile to interact with the contracts

`--use-base`                      
:   To use `base` chain profile to interact with the contracts

`--use-optimistic`                
:   To use `optimistic` chain profile to interact with the contracts

`--use-arbitrum-one`              
:   To use `arbitrum-one` chain profile to interact with the contracts

`--use-gnosis`                    
:   To use `gnosis` chain profile to interact with the contracts

`--use-polygon`                   
:   To use `polygon` chain profile to interact with the contracts

`--use-ethereum`                  
:   To use `ethereum` chain profile to interact with the contracts

`--use-custom-chain`              
:   To use `custom-chain` chain profile to interact with the contracts

`--use-local`                     
:   To use `local` chain profile to interact with the contracts

`--help`
:   Show the help message and exit.


### Examples

```bash
autonomy deploy from-token --use-ethereum 2 keys.json
```

Runs the service deployment registered with `TOKEN_ID`=2 on the Ethereum mainnet. The deployment will be run for as many agents as keys are defined in the `keys.json` file. 


## `autonomy deploy stop`

Stop a deployment running in background, if you use `--detach` flag on `autonomy deploy run` or `autonomy deploy from-token` the service will run in background. You can stop this service using `autonomy deploy stop` command.

### Usage

```bash
autonomy deploy stop --build-dir BUILD_DIR
```

### Options:

`--build-dir PATH`
:   Path to the deployment build directory.

`--help`
:   Show this message and exit.
